A White filmmaker held up a Black Lives Matter sign in Harrison, Arkansas, and here's what happened

By Alisha Ebrahimji, CNN

Updated 6:36 PM ET, Fri July 31, 2020
Rob Bliss standing in front of a billboard in Harrison, Arkansas, with his Black Lives Matter sign. 
Rob Bliss standing in front of a billboard in Harrison, Arkansas, with his Black Lives Matter sign.
(CNN)A White filmmaker traveled to a town just outside the headquarters of the Ku Klux Klan to document reactions to him holding a Black Lives Matter sign.

With a GoPro strapped to his chest under his shirt, out of view to his subjects, and a lapel mic on his body, Rob Bliss, 31, stood on the side of the road in Harrison, Arkansas, with his handmade poster. Harrison is 135 miles north of the capital Little Rock.
"They say light is always the best disinfectant, and by showing the reality of many of these places it helps expose people who are in these big cities that don't really know what is still going on in the United States today," he told CNN.
NBA season restarts with a nod to Black Lives Matter 
NBA season restarts with a nod to Black Lives Matter
Bliss, a content creator from Los Angeles, is known for producing viral video campaigns on social issues. In 2014, he worked on a project showcasing what 10 hours of street harassment in New York City looked like for women, which was criticized at the time for only featuring minorities and little to no White individuals. In 2013, Bliss created a fundraising video featuring a homeless veteran receiving a makeover.
In his latest project, Bliss said he strung together an edited video compilation of what he believes is a raw look and reminder of just how prevalent racism remains in pockets of the country.
"There is a fair amount of preaching to the choir in liberal spaces," Bliss said. That's why he decided to travel to Harrison -- a town "known for its struggle with race and White pride billboards," he said. That, coupled with the fact that it is just outside of the home to the national headquarters of the KKK.
"I know that I have privileges and abilities as a White man to go into a nearly all White town and hold this sign without as much fear as a person of color would have," he said. "I think it's important where I have these privileges, I have a responsibility to use them to help lift up other people as well."
According to the Southern Poverty Law Center and the KKK, Harrison is home to the national chapter of the group. Harrison Regional Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Bob Largent told CNN the organization is actually headquartered in Zinc, Arkansas, 15 miles east of Harrison.
Three days of hearing from residents
The two minute video was posted on Monday and begins with Bliss holding his sign in front of a billboard on the side of a busy highway in Harrison. It says "For the Family" with a picture of what appears to be a family and a cross next to it, with the websites WhitePrideRadio.com and AltRightTV.com across the top and bottom of the board.
"I think most people in passing didn't realize that they were being recorded," Bliss said. "But this is all happening in a wide open, public space with no expectations of privacy as you can see in the video."
Throughout the video compilation of edited clips by Bliss, he captures residents driving past him and, at some points, walking by him, to express their animosity toward his presence. Bliss filmed over the course of three days the first week of July.
A Black Lives Matter mural is defaced with red, white and blue paint in Washington state
A Black Lives Matter mural is defaced with red, white and blue paint in Washington state
In the clips seen on his video, Bliss said he stood on the side of a main highway for parts of the video.
"Have a little pride in your race brother," a man in a gray minivan says in the video while driving by Bliss. "White pride worldwide." 
In the video, another man in a tan car drives by Bliss, shows him his middle finger and says nothing at first. He then returns a second time to say, "About ten minutes I'm gonna be back, you better be f****** gone." Bliss said that man didn't return.
One person after another can be seen in the video berating Bliss for the message on his sign, some questioning his beliefs by asking if he's a Marxist, Communist or domestic terrorist.
"Hey all lives matter, not just Black," another man from a black SUV yells to Bliss. "You're a Caucasian."  
But the video wasn't entirely negative. At the end of the video, Bliss featured one clip of a woman handing him a handwritten note. Bliss said he blurred her face in the video for her protection.
"Ignore the haters you're being peaceful," the note read. "What you're doing is good. Just a friendly reminder. Don't give up hope." 
While Bliss was filming with his sign, he estimates about a dozen people took the time to offer him something to drink while he was standing in the heat. Clips of those interactions were not shown in his video.
"Much like how I didn't include every negative thing said to me because the video was a summary, I didn't include the people who gave me Gatorade because I wanted to save that positive sentiment for the girl who gave me the note," he said. "I think she symbolized that sentiment the best."
City leaders say the video doesn't reflect their community
Bliss' video caught the attention of Harrison city leaders. Boone County Judge Robert Hathaway, Harrison Mayor Jerry Jackson and Chamber of Commerce President Largent issued a joint online statement Tuesday to denounce the behavior of the locals featured in the video.
"The video does not represent Boone County nor the City of Harrison," the statement said. "While we cannot excuse the reprehensible behavior and words of individuals recorded in the video, we know for certain that they do not reflect the views of the majority of the good people of our communities."
In essay published on day of his funeral, John Lewis calls on Americans to &#39;let freedom ring&#39;
In essay published on day of his funeral, John Lewis calls on Americans to 'let freedom ring'
On Friday, Largent told CNN he continues to work with community, elected and business leaders along with a task force on race relations, a group that was formed in 2003 by Bob Reynolds who was mayor at the time. The task force is made up of local clergy and volunteers, according to the City of Harrison's website.
"It is obvious there is still work to be done in our area and across the nation," the city leaders' statement said. "We must constantly strive to do better, and we pledge our continued efforts in that regard."
The task force was created at a time when racial tensions in the area were high, group member Kevin Scheri told CNN. He joined their efforts in 2013.
Scheri, a Black man, said the purpose of the group is to "address issues relative to this perception of Harrison as this racist community."
Since its inception, Scheri said the group has made significant strides to change the perception of Harrison by "facilitating resolutions to community issues through programs and conversations," according to Scheri.
He called Bliss' video a "mixed blessing."
"What it has done for us is, it's helped the few people who are still in denial see that there are a few people here with that mentality," Scheri said. "But not to the degree in the way that it implies by the way that (Bliss) presented it."
PAID CONTENT
The Stunning Volvo XC90 Is Turning Heads
The Stunning Volvo XC90 Is Turning Heads
searchthese.net | Sponsored Listings
How to Make S'mores Bars for a DIY Summer Camp in Your Own Backyard!
How to Make S'mores Bars for a DIY Summer Camp in Your Own Backyard!
www.lunchboxdad.com
Girlfriend’s arrest was ‘gut punch’ for Yankees’ Aaron Judge, says insider
Girlfriend’s arrest was ‘gut punch’ for Yankees’ Aaron Judge, says insider
New York Post
After hundreds gathered at a California faith event without masks, officials ask them to self-quarantineAfter hundreds gathered at a California faith event without masks, officials ask them to self-quarantine
Health
After hundreds gathered at a California faith event without masks, officials ask them to self-quarantine
Machine Gun Kelly says he has 'waited for eternity' for Megan Fox, confirming their relationship on InstagramMachine Gun Kelly says he has 'waited for eternity' for Megan Fox, confirming their relationship on Instagram
Entertainment
Machine Gun Kelly says he has 'waited for eternity' for Megan Fox, confirming their relationship on Instagram
Great granddaughter of anti-Nazi resistance fighter confronted a couple wearing swastika masks in a US WalmartGreat granddaughter of anti-Nazi resistance fighter confronted a couple wearing swastika masks in a US Walmart
U.S.
Great granddaughter of anti-Nazi resistance fighter confronted a couple wearing swastika masks in a US Walmart
Paid Content
The New 2021 Kia Seltos Astonishes! Kia Seltos | Sponsored Listings
Red Bull fires top executives over Black Lives Matter internal… Business Insider
If Your Dog Eats Grass (Do This Every Day) Ultimate Pet Nutrition
How to buy Apple devices without paying Apple prices Wikibuy
More from CNN
Harvey Updyke, who poisoned landmark oak trees at Auburn…
British-Japanese pop singer Rina Sawayama says her nationality…
Private school attended by Barron Trump prohibited from…
Lindsey Graham campaign ad features image of opponent with…
Recommended by
More from CNN
Devin Nunes declines to say whether he received foreign information meant to damage Biden
Devin Nunes declines to say whether he received foreign…
Democratic rep says red states are 'getting what was coming to them' for 'playing politics' with Covid-19
Democratic rep says red states are 'getting what was coming to…
Paid Content
24/7 protection in under 30 minutes
24/7 protection in under 30 minutes
Home Security Systems | Wireless Home Security
Her Credit Score Went From 588 to 781 (In Just 90 Days With This)
Her Credit Score Went From 588 to 781 (In Just 90 Days With This)
Credit Secrets
Doing This Every Morning Can Fix Clogged Metabolism
Doing This Every Morning Can Fix Clogged Metabolism
Metabolic Greens
by 
Search CNN...

Search
US
Crime + Justice
Energy + Environment
Extreme Weather
Space + Science
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australia
China
Europe
India
Middle East
United Kingdom
Politics
2020 Election
Donald Trump
Supreme Court
Congress
Facts First
Business
Markets
Tech
Media
Success
Perspectives
Videos
Opinion
Political Op-Eds
Social Commentary
Health
Food
Fitness
Wellness
Parenting
Vital Signs
Entertainment
Stars
Screen
Binge
Culture
Media
Tech
Innovate
Gadget
Foreseeable Future
Mission: Ahead
Upstarts
Work Transformed
Innovative Cities
Style
Arts
Design
Fashion
Architecture
Luxury
Beauty
Video
Travel
Destinations
Food and Drink
Stay
News
Videos
Sports
Pro Football
College Football
Basketball
Baseball
Soccer
Olympics
Videos
Live TV
Digital Studios
CNN Films
HLN
TV Schedule
TV Shows A-Z
CNNVR
Coupons
CNN Underscored
Explore
Wellness
Gadgets
Lifestyle
CNN Store
More
Photos
Longform
Investigations
CNN Profiles
CNN Leadership
CNN Newsletters
Work for CNN
Weather
Climate
Storm Tracker
Video
US
FOLLOW CNN
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
AdChoices
About Us
CNN Studio Tours
CNN Store
Newsletters
Transcripts
License Footage
CNN Newsource
Sitemap
© 2020 Cable News Network.Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Opinion: What my Nextdoor neighbors don't get about the word 'plantation'

Matt Dumba is first NHL player to kneel during National Anthem

