START THE DAY HERE
Tropical Storm Isaias threatens the Carolinas. New waves of global Covid-19 panic. Cracks emerge in US school reopening plans.

The one mistake Biden mustn't make with his veep pick
Opinion by Joe Lockhart

Updated 5:44 PM ET, Sun August 2, 2020
What Joe Biden says he's looking for in his VP pick

Schumer: Meeting was more productive, but many issues outstanding

Pelosi to Brianna Keilar: That's not an appropriate question to ask

Everything you need to know about the 2020 US election
WASHINGTON, DC - APRIL 02: Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner joins members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force at the daily briefing April 2, 2020 in the briefing room at the White House in Washington, DC. The U.S. government reported an unprecedented 6.6 million jobless claims this morning as a result of the coronavirus outbreak. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
Report: Kushner's Covid-19 testing plan 'went poof into thin air'

Tapper: How on Earth can Congress adjourn for the weekend?

Dr. Fauci and Jim Jordan get in heated exchange over protests
WASHINGTON, DC - JULY 28: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks during a news conference at the White House July 28, 2020 in Washington, DC. Trump announced that Eastman Kodak will receive a loan to manufacture ingredients used in pharmaceuticals.   (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Group prepares for chance Trump refuses to concede election
trump absentee ballot limo access hollywood
Video from 2004 shows Trump filling out provisional ballot
US Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden speaks on June 30, 2020, in Wilmington, Delaware.
What Joe Biden says he's looking for in his VP pick
birx sotu 080220
Dr. Birx has a warning for rural Americans

Lawmaker: Trump doesn't plan to leave the White House
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump stands with Republican vice presidential candidate Mike Pence and acknowledge the crowd on the third day of the Republican National Convention on July 20, 2016 at the Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland, Ohio. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump received the number of votes needed to secure the party&#39;s nomination. An estimated 50,000 people are expected in Cleveland, including hundreds of protesters and members of the media. The four-day Republican National Convention kicked off on July 18.
GOP convention in Charlotte will be closed to the press
WASHINGTON, DC - JULY 31:  U.S. President Donald Trump speaks to members of the press prior to a Marine One departure from the South Lawn of the White House July 31, 2020 in Washington, DC. President Trump is travelling to Florida to attend campaign events and a COVID-19 response and storm preparedness roundtable. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Analyst: Trump and AG gave us 'dangerous misinformation'
Democratic presidential candidate and U.S. Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) speaks during the 2020 Public Service Forum on August 3, 2019 in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Dem: Red states 'getting what was coming to them' with Covid-19
US House Majority Whip James Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, speaks during a press conference about COVID-19 testing on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, May 27, 2020. - The US capital is relaxing lockdown restrictions following a sustained period of decreased coronavirus infections, Washington&#39;s mayor said Wednesday, announcing that restaurants and other businesses can reopen under social distancing guidelines. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP) (Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images)
Rep. Clyburn: I'd rather be hated than disrespected

Enten: This is the latest sign that Trump is in trouble

Schumer: Meeting was more productive, but many issues outstanding

Pelosi to Brianna Keilar: That's not an appropriate question to ask

Everything you need to know about the 2020 US election
WASHINGTON, DC - APRIL 02: Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner joins members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force at the daily briefing April 2, 2020 in the briefing room at the White House in Washington, DC. The U.S. government reported an unprecedented 6.6 million jobless claims this morning as a result of the coronavirus outbreak. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)
Report: Kushner's Covid-19 testing plan 'went poof into thin air'

Tapper: How on Earth can Congress adjourn for the weekend?

Dr. Fauci and Jim Jordan get in heated exchange over protests
WASHINGTON, DC - JULY 28: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks during a news conference at the White House July 28, 2020 in Washington, DC. Trump announced that Eastman Kodak will receive a loan to manufacture ingredients used in pharmaceuticals.   (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Group prepares for chance Trump refuses to concede election
trump absentee ballot limo access hollywood
Video from 2004 shows Trump filling out provisional ballot
US Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden speaks on June 30, 2020, in Wilmington, Delaware.
What Joe Biden says he's looking for in his VP pick
birx sotu 080220
Dr. Birx has a warning for rural Americans

Lawmaker: Trump doesn't plan to leave the White House
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump stands with Republican vice presidential candidate Mike Pence and acknowledge the crowd on the third day of the Republican National Convention on July 20, 2016 at the Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland, Ohio. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump received the number of votes needed to secure the party&#39;s nomination. An estimated 50,000 people are expected in Cleveland, including hundreds of protesters and members of the media. The four-day Republican National Convention kicked off on July 18.
GOP convention in Charlotte will be closed to the press
WASHINGTON, DC - JULY 31:  U.S. President Donald Trump speaks to members of the press prior to a Marine One departure from the South Lawn of the White House July 31, 2020 in Washington, DC. President Trump is travelling to Florida to attend campaign events and a COVID-19 response and storm preparedness roundtable. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Analyst: Trump and AG gave us 'dangerous misinformation'
Democratic presidential candidate and U.S. Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) speaks during the 2020 Public Service Forum on August 3, 2019 in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Dem: Red states 'getting what was coming to them' with Covid-19
US House Majority Whip James Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, speaks during a press conference about COVID-19 testing on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, May 27, 2020. - The US capital is relaxing lockdown restrictions following a sustained period of decreased coronavirus infections, Washington&#39;s mayor said Wednesday, announcing that restaurants and other businesses can reopen under social distancing guidelines. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP) (Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images)
Rep. Clyburn: I'd rather be hated than disrespected

Enten: This is the latest sign that Trump is in trouble
Joe Lockhart is a CNN political analyst. He was the White House press secretary from 1998-2000 in President Bill Clinton's administration. He co-hosts the podcast "Words Matter." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion at CNN.

(CNN)Joe Biden has promised to announce his choice for vice president in the coming days. While political insiders and members of the media have obsessed over every possible contender, the announcement will likely be forgotten within days as focus will revert to the pandemic and the candidates at the top of the ticket.

Joe Lockhart
Joe Lockhart
The last time a VP pick was instrumental to a race was 1960, when Texas Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson helped put John F. Kennedy over the top by attracting votes from the South. There have been plenty of strong candidates and incredibly flawed VP picks since then, but none have helped determine the outcome of the presidential race. Put another way, John McCain didn't lose because he picked Sarah Palin in 2008, but it sure didn't help.
All of this is not to say the VP pick is not important. The decision -- once a means of finding ideological or regional balance -- is increasingly a test of the candidate's judgment and an early indication of the kind of administration he intends to run.
Bill Clinton, for example, was widely expected to choose someone from the more liberal wing of the Democratic party and not another son of the South. But by choosing Al Gore, he made a broader and bolder statement; this campaign was about generational change and a new style of leadership. Both Clinton and Gore were younger men in their mid-40s who brought more physical energy to the race than George H. W. Bush, then in his late 60s. The contrast fueled the narrative that America needed new, younger leadership.
What&#39;s behind Trump&#39;s bizarre suggestion
What's behind Trump's bizarre suggestion
More importantly, Clinton and Gore were comfortable with each other and shared the same basic world view. The same was true for Barack Obama and Biden and, for better or worse, Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew.
Ultimately, the success of a VP pick comes down to these two factors: whether the two running mates share a genuine and comfortable partnership, and whether the VP reinforces the broad message about how the presidential candidate intends to govern.
So, what is Biden going to do? He has already made the kind of statement Bill Clinton did by picking Gore -- making generational change a centerpiece of the campaign. By committing to pick a woman early in the campaign, Biden signaled his intention to break the glass ceiling. Women are the key to Biden's election success, particularly Black women. This was an important message from the beginning, helping to blunt any unease within the Democratic party that Biden was just another old guy in the party.
Now the only question is: which woman? Judging from his experience with Obama, the former vice president will want to pick someone he's comfortable with -- someone he knows and trusts. Vetting the VP choice is one of the most consequential jobs of a fledgling presidential campaign. If the first rule of VP picks is to do no harm, the second rule is this: absolutely no surprises. Biden will want to avoid any unwelcome revelations such as we've seen in the past -- like Palin's much-mocked ignorance about international affairs and Geraldine Ferraro's husband's finances becoming a flash point when she announced he would not be releasing his tax returns.
I&#39;m ready to call our sister in the movement for justice Madam Vice President Kamala Harris
I'm ready to call our sister in the movement for justice Madam Vice President Kamala Harris
Getting the vetting right is an important test of competency. And that's especially important in this election cycle. Biden is running as the candidate who won't make the mistakes the Trump administration made from day one. Messing up the VP would seriously undermine the whole competency narrative.
It should be said no contender is perfect or baggage-free. But don't mistake the public criticisms of various VP choices -- from Kamala Harris' supposed ambition to Rep. Karen Bass's past comments about Scientology -- as immediately disqualifying. More often than not, that information will be floated out by the campaign to judge the public's reaction before a decision is made. Any new information reported after the pick is announced takes on much more importance and signals the campaign failed in fully vetting the pick.
How the new VP candidate is rolled out is also an important test. Even if you believe my theory that the VP pick only matters for a few days, those few days are very important. Developing a showcase announcement tour that highlights the strengths of the candidate and how they both complement and reinforce each other is both a messaging challenge and a cultural test of how well the running mates and their respective staff members can work together. McCain and his staff had significant problems dealing with Palin and her staff. On the flip side, the bus tour out of the Democratic convention in 1992 cemented the generational change both Clinton and Gore were aiming to convey.
It's age-old wisdom that the vice president also has to be the attack dog, but that has been less true in recent years and mostly irrelevant this year. The main issue in this campaign is Trump. Biden's pick will help serve as a contrast to the incumbent and demonstrate the ability for the Biden administration to hit the ground running on day one.
Get our free weekly newsletter
Sign up for CNN Opinion's new newsletter.

Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Biden's vice president will, of course, need to appeal to core Democratic constituencies, minority communities and women. Biden has a wealth of choices on that front and it's hard to see, as long as the vetting is done properly, how he could go wrong.
McCain shocked the political elite by picking Palin as a way of shaking up the race. Walter Mondale did the same by picking Ferraro in 1984. And Clinton surprised the country by picking another Southerner. For Biden, the task is different. Biden's challenge is just the opposite. His pick needs to be designed to maintain the structure of the race rather than changing the dynamic. The very last thing he needs now is to spring a surprise on all of us.
PAID CONTENT
Shop Everlane’s Top Summer Outfit Picks
Shop Everlane’s Top Summer Outfit Picks
Everlane
If you're over 40 - this game is a must - No Install!
If you're over 40 - this game is a must - No Install!
Vikings
Texas Residents: Compare 2020's Best Health Insurance Plans
Texas Residents: Compare 2020's Best Health Insurance Plans
obamacareplans.com
28 incredible masks to match all sorts of personalitiesCNN Underscored
Underscored
28 incredible masks to match all sorts of personalities
Bill Gates says most coronavirus tests are a 'complete waste' because the results come back too slowBill Gates says most coronavirus tests are a 'complete waste' because the results come back too slow
Health
Bill Gates says most coronavirus tests are a 'complete waste' because the results come back too slow
Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan discharged from hospital after recovering from coronavirusBollywood star Amitabh Bachchan discharged from hospital after recovering from coronavirus
CNN
Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan discharged from hospital after recovering from coronavirus
Paid Content
Shut The Front Door! The All New Volkswagen Lineup Is Incredible searchthese.net | Sponsored Listings
1 Mac Trick You Need to Know MacKeeper
Read This Before You Renew Amazon Prime Again Wikibuy
The 25 Worst Casting Choices of All Time New Arena
More from CNN
What you need to know if it's your first time biking in a while CNN Underscored
Experts say this is how to wash your face masks right CNN Underscored
Here's what we know about eight of the soldiers who have died…
David Axelrod: The key factor for Biden's VP choice
Recommended by
More from CNN
Private school attended by Barron Trump prohibited from in-person learning until October as President pushes openings
Private school attended by Barron Trump prohibited from…
The 'Squad' plays defense as Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar face primary challengers
The 'Squad' plays defense as Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar face…
Paid Content
The New 2021 Kia Seltos Astonishes!
The New 2021 Kia Seltos Astonishes!
Kia Seltos | Sponsored Listings
Jeff Bezos Drops $16 Million on Another Manhattan Pad to Create a ‘Vertical’ Dream Home
Jeff Bezos Drops $16 Million on Another Manhattan Pad to Create a ‘Vertical’ Dream…
Mansion Global
This Startup Raised $51M to Help With Retirement
This Startup Raised $51M to Help With Retirement
SmartAsset
by
Search CNN...

Search
US
Crime + Justice
Energy + Environment
Extreme Weather
Space + Science
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australia
China
Europe
India
Middle East
United Kingdom
Politics
2020 Election
Donald Trump
Supreme Court
Congress
Facts First
Business
Markets
Tech
Media
Success
Perspectives
Videos
Opinion
Political Op-Eds
Social Commentary
Health
Food
Fitness
Wellness
Parenting
Vital Signs
Entertainment
Stars
Screen
Binge
Culture
Media
Tech
Innovate
Gadget
Foreseeable Future
Mission: Ahead
Upstarts
Work Transformed
Innovative Cities
Style
Arts
Design
Fashion
Architecture
Luxury
Beauty
Video
Travel
Destinations
Food and Drink
Stay
News
Videos
Sports
Pro Football
College Football
Basketball
Baseball
Soccer
Olympics
Videos
Live TV
Digital Studios
CNN Films
HLN
TV Schedule
TV Shows A-Z
CNNVR
Coupons
CNN Underscored
Explore
Wellness
Gadgets
Lifestyle
CNN Store
More
Photos
Longform
Investigations
CNN Profiles
CNN Leadership
CNN Newsletters
Work for CNN
Weather
Climate
Storm Tracker
Video
Opinion
FOLLOW CNN
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
AdChoices
About Us
CNN Studio Tours
CNN Store
Newsletters
Transcripts
License Footage
CNN Newsource
Sitemap
© 2020 Cable News Network.Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Rep. James Clyburn: Donald Trump plans to install himself in office in emergency way

Avlon sounds off on Trump's promise